# Previously in CI Tooling

----

## Testing

- **Unit tests**: ensure that individual components of the app work as expected. Assertions test the component API.
- **Integration tests**: ensure that component collaborations work as expected. Assertions may test component API, UI, or side-effects (such as database I/O, logging, etc…)
- **Acceptance tests** (also called Functional tests): ensure that the app works as expected from the user’s perspective. Assertions primarily test the user interface.

----

## Unit Testing

> Unit testing is a software development process in which the smallest testable parts of an application, called units, are individually and independently scrutinized for proper operation.

----

## Exercise!

Code coverage??

----

<!-- .slide: data-background="#E5623D" data-transition="zoom" class="orange-slide" -->
## Only Becky??

----

## What should have you done

[Istanbul](https://github.com/gotwarlost/istanbul) used with a grunt task called `grunt-mocha-istanbul`, replacing the original *mocha* task with:

```javascript
mocha_istanbul: {
    coverage: {
        src: ['test/**/*.test.js'],
        options: {
            mochaOptions: ['--compilers', 'js:babel-register']
        }
    }
}
```

---

# Integration Testing

All the units work, now they need to work together


----

## Our Objectives:

- Create a second unit and its test
- Do some integration tests
- Add the task to TravisCI

---

<!-- .slide: data-background="#E5623D" data-transition="zoom" class="orange-slide" -->
# Warning

## We're using ES6
*(which you know thanks to **papa**...)*

---

# What's integration testing?

----

>The purpose of integration testing is to find out the issues related to the functions and performance of the software application when the individual modules are integrated. This is to mainly test the links between the modules.

----

## A single unit may perform well in terms of functional and performance

...but when they are combined/integrated there may be a lot of issues in it. So we need to integrate modules and test to avoid such issues which may have a serious effect on the project performance and quality.

---

## The approach

There are several approach you can have to your testing:

- Big Bang
- Top Down
- Bottom Up
- Sandwich
- Risky

---

# Let's write some code

(already have the `getFilename({ path: String}) => String)`)

----

## Let's create a second class `File`

```javascript
export default class File {
    // Silence is Golden
}
```

----

### Let's start from ...
#### ...the test!

The function we're going to create is `readTXT({ filename: String }) => String` which gets the content from a .txt file, given an extensionless *filename*


---

## Write the actual function

What you really need is the `readTXT()` function

---

## And now test for the integration

The scenario would be that the `File::readTXT()` will be using `Utils::getFilename()`

---

## For next time:

- Create a SauceLabs account **!mandatory**
- Serve a php page through grunt *advised*

---

# Grazie! 
